So our network is working, so we've integrated the NPM VM with our GNS 3 topology, we've
tested IP connectivity.
So now we can connect to NPM and login, so URL to use is localhost:8787 or alternatively
the hostname of your PC.
The default username is Admin the default password is no password, in other words, blank that's
shown here, and you can change that by going to settings, manage accounts.
I'm going to login with those default values and now we can start our network discovery.
So I'm going to click start.
We can discover devices by using a small subnet such as /24 or by specifying individual IP addresses.
I'm going to add a range of addresses so 10.1.100.1 to 10.1.100
.3.
I'm gonna click next.
I'll make this a bit bigger, so it's easier to read.
Next, we're told that NPM can check all notes currently polling with agents for updates by selecting
by selecting this option, all notes currently polling via an agent will be pulled for updates.
The setting is helpful when using scheduled discoveries to keep agent updates current.
So I'm going to select that option and click next.
Do we want to log in to ESXI so we can poll VMware and add our vCenter or ESX credentials?
I'm going to click next.
Now, by default SNMP or simple network management protocol will use a public and private community
value for accessing devices.
Now we configured
our routers.
So show run pipe include SNMP with a community value of NPM, so we need to add a new credential
here.
The value is going to be NPM,
click add so there it is, click next, we can add Windows credentials if we want to allow solar
winds NPM to collect C.P.U memory and volume data from Windows servers that don't support SNMP.
For now
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to click next.
We asked how we would like to set up what to monitor so manually set up monitoring of the devices are
discovered automatically monitor based on my defined monitoring settings.
I'm going to leave it at the default of manual, click next.
Now, at any point, you can go back through the wizard, so at the moment I'm at discovery settings,
I could click back to go to monitoring settings.
So as an example, I might want to include devices that respond to pings alone.
Click next.
Details of my discovery are shown here.
I'm going to accept the defaults and click next.
I'm asked how often I want to do the polling that could be hourly, daily, or other options.
I'm going to select once only
and I want to run the discovery right now.
So click discover,
the discovery process is then started and you can see here that three notes have been discovered.
You can see the overall progress indicator.
So at this point, three routers were discovered and one Windows 7 workstation was discovered, click
next.
Now, which interfaces should be monitored by default, up interfaces are monitored.
The port mode of trunk access or unknown is going to be monitored and physical, virtual, and unknown
interfaces are going to be monitored.
We can see a list of interfaces, so as an example,
on router 1 FastEthernet 0/0 is up, but FastEthernet 1/0 is down.
So my various interfaces, including serial interfaces, are shown here.
Other interfaces are also listed, such as null zero, as well as the loopback interfaces of the devices.
As an example, show IP interface brief on router 1 shows a list of interfaces.
So you can see the FastEthernet interfaces and serial interfaces.
So that interface information has been picked up by the solarwinds NPM application, click next on my
PC, I can view RAM virtual memory, fixed disk space, and other options. Here's the import preview so we
can decide what we want to import.
I'm going to import my routers as well as the Windows machine, and you can see that information is
now being imported into the database.
The import has finished.
So I'm going to click finish.
So going to my dashboard's summary.
I can see that I have three Cisco routers, router 1, router 2, and router 3.
An unknown device has also been picked up, that is the additional IP address on my local Windows PC.
I can also see that I have issues connecting to Google.com as an example.
So let's click on one of the routers, router 1.
You can see the note is up, can see the IP address, machine type description, and other information
about the router.
Including, as an example, interface utilization, that's how you get NPM integrated with a GNS 3 network,
not only is NPM a very powerful application and we'll look at some of the features as we go through the
course, but it also helps you learn practically simple network management protocol and the management
of network devices using a management station.